Okay.
We're sitting in the rain outside the Allen Memorial Medical Library.
We're in Cleveland proper now?
Yeah.
Yeah, this is Cleveland.
And it's on the University Circle on Case Western Reserve University campus.
This library was built in 1926 and dedicated by Harvey Cushing.
Harvey.
The famous neurosurgeon from Harvard and Yale.
And that was a Cleveland family, so it was appropriate that he was brought back to do that.
But the library was built to provide reading materials of the same quality that physicians in Europe had to Cleveland practicing physicians.
So this is a practicing physician library.
It's now a national landmark and a Cleveland landmark.
And it has a collection that starts in about 1475 and goes forward from that.
It has a very unusual herbal collection, one of the finest in the world.
It has a Darwin collection.
It was a very unusual Freud collection.
And it has a lot of other materials, including a number of books from the collection of Nicholas Pohl, who was the P.O.L.
Nicholas Pohl was the physician to Maximilian I of Austria and followed him around on his various travels and carried his books in his saddlebags.
We have
There are a few of those books.
They're spread around the world, but we have, I think, six.
And that's what this library is all about.
It's a practicing physician library.
And, of course, I'm sure it's been added, too, by private people, by individuals.
A lot of gifts from individuals, very extensive practicing medicine collection, which we try to maintain with all the economic uncertainties and that.
But it's a library that physicians walk into and behave differently.
And you see this?
Oh, yeah.
You can notice it.
And our theft rate is different here than it is in the other library.
Well, how do you mean they behave differently?
There's a willingness to say that I'm in a great institution and a great library, and I'm going to behave.
You don't get graffiti.
You don't get banalisms.
behavior that's obstreperous or unfortunate.
But would you get that from physicians and other libraries?
Oh, yeah.
Because of the natural arrogance of the species.
Pretty much.
They steal journal articles and all that kind of stuff.
You know, Tom Wolfe said the right stuff.
The only people who can compare to fighter pilots who talk to his inscriptions, you know, in terms of arrogance.
He's got it.
He's got it down pat.
Thanks again.
Well, there's an argument going on in the library profession, and in fact it's going on in our whole society.
With the computer access to information... I have a whole chapter on this.
People are very concerned.
And I maintain that if we're careful about it, and as sophisticated as we need to be, the computer helps you find things.
It does not separate the need for the thing.
Meaning the artifact, the...
Because you can't sit there and read on a screen.
I don't know anybody who's read a book.
Do you know a single person who's read a book, page one, the end on a computer screen?
I don't know.
Drives you crazy?
I think what's going to happen is, and we're already seeing it in book purchases, as I'm sure you've documented already.
You look at the bookstores in Cleveland.
When I came here in 66, there were essentially...
About four bookstores.
And then suddenly, a few years back, it just took off.
I was coming back from seeing Peter Kosgloff, who was a book collector and book dealer in Cleveland, quite a famous one.
He was the one who built Hugo Robert's collection.
Yes, it was with Hugo yesterday.
Hugo's a trip.
He's great fun.
But I was coming back at 9 o'clock at night on a Saturday, and I came by a Barnes & Noble bookstore out in an area where you don't think books.
It's coming in from Hugo's place.
And I decided that I had to go in and see if they had a particular book I was looking for, so I could hardly get through the place.
There were hundreds of people in there.
Nine o'clock on a Saturday night in a bookstore in Cleveland, Ohio.
That's exciting, isn't it?
It's astonishing.
It's great.
I always just spent eight days on the West Coast.
Say again.
Lou.
No.
The one from New York.
Kroos.
Oh, I'm sorry, I'll start again.
Krause?
Krause, well, Krause is dead, but Mary Ann Foulter, his daughter, Mary Ann Krause Foulter.
I want to know everybody.
There's a guy who came out with a really, at first, outrageous statement.
What if I take some of these things?
The more I thought about it, the more attention I gave to it, the more reasonable it sounded.
I always say he's a very young man because he looks very young.
There's a guy named Alan Kay.
Don't know him.
K-A-Y.
He's the guy who developed the mouse on the computer.
He's a genius.
He came out of the University of Utah with a degree in something like romance language.
He turns out to be the best computer guy in the entire world.
From a computer standpoint, as a
user and thinker on it, he makes Gates look like a corporate executive, which he is.
But Alan Kay, who is the chief scientist at Apple Corporation, gave a talk at the Educom conference in Stanford years ago and stood up and said, if you want students in elementary school, secondary school, to learn about computers and how to use them, have them put on a play.
Jesus Christ.
I said... Oh, that's right.
He said, if you're going to put on a play, you've got to do it in such a way that it's exactly what you need to do to make use of the computer.
This guy is something else.
Where is he now?
He's chief scientist at the Apple Corporation.
And where are they?
Cupertino, California, I think.
That means I've got to go back to California.
Tell me about some of these things that we're walking by.
I'm in your hands, sir.
Please tell me your full name and rank in serial harm at all.
My name is Jeff Martin, and I'm a book librarian and activist here at the Cleveland Medical Library Association.
And I was just going to show you around a little bit.
I've got a couple of things that I've pulled for you.
Of course, some of these you may already have seen.
And I'm happy to answer any questions or whatever.
Why don't you just start and we'll let the questions take care of themselves.
Okay, very good, very good.
Well, did you want to sit or you want to take a look?
I mean, it's up to you.
Why don't you show me?
Okay, fine.
Well, we have an awful lot of collections here.
This room is a fairly new room.
We're very proud of it.
But we had had some problems a while back.
I don't know if Mr. Cheshire has mentioned it, but we actually had a flood at one point in time.
So all this has been refurbished and quite nicely done.
The majority of the things that are in this room are fairly important collections, but they're not everything.
We have a total of maybe 50,000 to 60,000 volumes.
I'm also in charge of the archives, and that's approximately 500 linear feet.
Is this the reading room as well?
Yes, this is the reading room.
Compact, to be sure.
Yes.
We also have another room that we tend to use for other people called the Corlette Room, which is a room on the other side I can show you, which is dedicated to the study of venereology and syphilology.
Okay.
So somebody's got to study it.
It's amusing, yes.
Well, it's also amusing to sit someone on the high.
We got you very much sitting in our syphilis room for this.
But anyway, I can show you a couple of the collections.
Obviously, you see Sigmund Freud here and our iconic pictures of Darwin.
We have a very strong collection of Darwin and Sigmund Freud.
These are the Freud things, but what I guess I would point out... Are they first editions or...?
Many of them are, although we do have mixtures of things in here, things that relate.
So an instance like the Schilder book, I'm sure, has some relation.
Some of these books, the ones I know to see the book labels makes people faint, but some of these books actually do...
So the ones that are, I mean, obviously I wrote this from the 1960s, we're not going to keep it in here.
But we have an awful lot of first editions.
We do have some strength in terms of actually collecting in other languages outside of German and English.
So we try and collect whatever.
One of the main ways that this material came in, both the Freud and the Darwin, is that Mr. Stecker, who, actually Dr. Stecker, excuse me, was
one of the physicians, librarians associated with the collection.
How do you spell his name?
S-T-E-C-H-E-R.
And he was instrumental in starting this.
And we've had this collection.
We've been building it for a long period of time.
The Cleveland Medical Library Association itself has been in existence for over 100 years.
So the richness of the collection is kind of due to all the different physicians.
Tell me, you don't mind my asking a few questions?
Sure.
Go right ahead.
Go ahead.
Obviously, this is here to serve the medical community?
Or the larger community of researchers out there, sure.
Okay.
Is it for medical students primarily or practicing physicians?
I would say it's really for almost anyone.
We do particularly teach classes for the medical students on history of medicine, and they're welcome to use these materials, although I've had inquiries from other people who are associated with different departments.
For instance, there is a history of nutrition class that's offered, and that woman always has come over here and look at some different things.
But usually, it's mostly Case Western people, but I get calls from different parts of the country, actually different parts of the world.
Well, I guess that kind of leads to the next question.
What is here that they can't get in different parts of the world?
Well, many times people are looking for, I think,
It seems to me many times people are looking for archival sorts of things.
We're very, very atypical kinds of works.
We have a very strong collection.
Obviously, the Darwin and the Freud are not as highly used by people outside.
Now, this starts getting into the Darwin, and you'll see it is very extensive.
Over here, of course, we have all the different versions of our species.
Of course, Darwin isn't necessarily medical either.
Well, that's true.
It's biological, and that's why we're kind of a little bit larger.
Again, I'm just showing you the extent.
But now these are printed books we're talking about.
Yes, that's right.
We're not talking about... I just saw something drip.
No, I didn't either.
No, that was... Okay, yeah.
Okay.
No, it was this right here.
That scared me when I saw... I hate that.
It's that white stuff.
But we do have people that are interested in more unusual items.
Our materials go all the way back to the incanabula era.
We have, in fact, the contents of approximately 50% of the contents of a physician who was extant in the late 15th century.
His name was Nicholas Pohl.
I can show you that here.
I don't know if you've ever heard the name Harvey Cushing, the famous
a famous neurosurgeon.
He was originally from Cleveland, but he actually is enshrined in Yale.
He was in Yale for many, many years, but he helped.
He was one of the people who was influential in getting this.
Was it incunable here?
Yes.
They're not all incunables that are here, but a large number.
Yes, that's right.
I think we have over 40 incunables.
There are a couple of herbals.
You see, actually, there's been a book written on pole.
This is not only in
Bibliography.
Oh, sure.
You can send this.
I mean, the bibliography.
Send this.
I've got 50 tapes on behind to transcribe it.
Now, this book is pretty widely available, I believe.
Go ahead and let you just talk to me about that.
Yeah, that's all right.
I don't want to, yeah.
But anyway, so the Paul collection is pretty important because a lot of the books, because they are incunables, or they're just early books, period,
They have many different peculiar things related to them.
I often use this collection in terms of a book art, sort of an educational way, and oftentimes the first year students who come over here for their introduction to the museum and the library are rather stunned to be able to view something that's, you know, a printed work that's 500 years old.
It's amazing, isn't it?
It is, especially for the medical students, because for most of them, anything that's been published in the last 10 years is fine, but previous to that, it's as if the knowledge was unimportant.
And then for them suddenly to realize that they can hold a book in their hands that's 500 years old is quite outstanding.
The Paul Collection, interestingly enough, is not studied as a whole, but I believe that there are sometimes inquiries for different sorts of things, whether it's
The bindings, as you've seen, some of them are rather nice.
I wouldn't be surprised, too, if there have been different book arts-related questions.
And again, I would say we have approximately 50% of his library.
And it's rather odd, as you probably realize, to have the allergies.
Well, of course, rare books, too.
It's not a professional hazard.
But it's very unusual.
to have that much of any person's library from that period of time.
So we feel very honored.
And this came basically from the fellow?
It was purchased.
And the Cushing family was a longtime resident of Cleveland, and Harvey Cushing was one of the people involved.
There were also several other Cushings that were doctors that were related, that were in town.
This collection is pretty highly used.
What are some of the high spots in here?
Oh, there are a lot of different things, but one thing that I just want to show you, kind of jumping the gun here, but I think these are not the original ties, obviously, but this is something I like to show to the students because it kind of ties in with things that they study.
This is Fracastoro's work on syphilis.
He is the inventor of the term.
Is that right?
Yeah.
What is it?
What are words?
Syphilis is actually, this is done, as per usual in medicine, these things have very, very strange things.
It's done at first, right?
Well, it's actually the story of a shepherd named Syphilis.
And Syphilis outrages the sun god by not doing the appropriate worship.
Like Thomas Baudelaire.
Yeah, that's right.
And he gave his name.
And so he is enshrined, and this person is enshrined as a
the name of this horrible disease.
Although, of course, syphilis was not used as the disease term.
So this is the publication where it's... Yes, that was the first work on syphilis.
It actually named it syphilis.
There were other things before that had discussed it.
Is there... How do I enter this?
I'm really interested.
So I'm back on again.
I guess what I would say that makes it special is
is the depth of the material.
I think that the doctors who established the Cleveland Medical Library Association were pretty much bibliophiles themselves.
At that period of time, I think most people were.
Well, that's interesting.
In fact, just as a historical note, the first book that was actually given, the first book of the library, is Vesalius.
So the 1555, which I have sitting over there if you'd like to do homage,
But there was a very, very great concern on the part of most of the doctors here to actually create a rich collection.
And as a result, we have a collection that kind of spans many, many different areas and have an awful lot of depth going all the way back, all the way present.
Something just like as a modern note, we have many different editions of, you know, all the different editions that we can possibly find of works.
So I've had a couple of historians who've come in who've been doing fairly
fairly late 19th century, early 20th century work who've been able to find every edition that they needed because everything has been kept.
That's how we are here.
Can you think of a couple of titles that just spring to mind where that might be the case?
Well, you know, probably the best example is Osler.
We have all the Osler editions, which is of course important.
We also have the
The first printing.
How many?
I think it's like 15 editions, something like that.
There were a number of other ones after that where he was not involved.
How many years?
It was approximately, I think his book reigned for maybe, I would say, 40 years, 50 years maybe.
And so what is really significant in the succeeding?
And not specifically, but why is it necessary?
Well, it's necessary to see the evolution of the conception of illnesses, especially as the
19th century turned into the 20th century, and there was this very large laboratory evolution in medicine, right?
All of a sudden, things were becoming much more codified by doing experiments and all the rest of it.
So, Osler's book is very interesting because he was truly a clinician, much more than an experimentalist, but his approach even to the clinical diagnosis of things changes over time, so it's nice to document that.
Sure.
And as I said, we have different editions of many things.
Even like in the 19th century, we have multiple editions of various texts that have come out.
We have a very strong syphalology, veneerology collection.
How did that happy smile every day you say that?
How did that happen here?
I don't know.
There was just an interest.
There was Dr. Corlett, who I believe the association was associated with him.
And I don't know if they were all his books or whether he happened to advocate there.
They're being purchased.
That happens so often.
Somebody gives a remarkable collection, and you become the authority overnight, especially if it's somehow pertinent to what you're doing, and this is clearly pertinent.
Also, as a footnote to my own career, the last place that I worked at had a major dermatology, venereology collection.
That was in Southern Illinois University, not in Carbondale, but the medical school in Springfield, Illinois.
So I've had a fairly strong dose.
of syphilis exposure.
But at any rate, the books are also marvelous because not only is there... I find this material very interesting because the syphilis material kind of mimics... The history of syphilis is kind of being reshaped when you look at AIDS.
And a lot of the issues that have gone on in the history of syphilis are being recapitulated, which is interesting.
Well, let me ask you.
This is something I thought of, you know.
People are asking me, what can you collect these days?
It isn't already... There's all kinds of things.
I would think that anybody alert enough to put together a collection on the history of AIDS, starting with the first use of the word.
That to me would be the...
That would be a very valuable document, wouldn't it?
Well, off the record, okay, I will tell you that we actually have something like the works.
Well, why would you tell me that off the record?
Well, because it's not formulated yet totally, so I don't want to, like, out to the public that Cleveland... This book's not been published for three years.
Well, but what we've got in the works is we're working with some other people here over in Western Reserve, the Historical Society.
I'll check back with you on this.
Sure, and what we're trying to do is we're trying to delimit a project on AIDS
And AIDS has been studied a lot in the East Coast and also out in San Francisco.
But in terms of America, it tends to be bipolar.
It tends to be East Coast or West Coast.
So what we're doing is we're trying to say, how can we document this in other parts of the country?
And what should be studied and what should be held on to?
With just the same idea that many of these things are maybe ephemeral.
They're being lost.
That's right.
So we have to go out there and work on it.
Do you have an individual like yourself that's kind of... That's what we're going to.
We're going to go toward that.
Somebody has to say, we have to define what we're after.
I would think that what would be very interesting, which you probably would not want to include in such a collection, but which I think, as a bibliophile and a chronicler of the history of this, is also all the...
books that have been written about it.
The novels, for instance, the fiction, the poetry, the wonderful poetry.
The guy won the National Book Critics' Circle Award with a moving poem about his lover who died of AIDS.
I would definitely want to see that in such a collection.
I'd want to see the memoirs.
Would this kind of material
be considered for inclusion in such a collection at a medical school?
Chances are that could be included.
That, to me, would almost be the mark of greatness in the collection, to go outside and to really make it very comprehensive.
Well, you know, most medical school collections, too, any of the good rare book collections, we tend to go into literature, for instance.
I mean, oftentimes when I'm upstairs,
I giggle because I've got a copy of, we've got Gulliver's Travels and we've got, you know, obviously Defoe's Plague Years and things like that.
But it's interesting because there's always been an interest in doctors and literature and especially physicians as literatures.
So there really is here then a very strong intellectual interest.
It's not clinical.
Oh, no, not at all.
And in fact, I think this,
I think that this collection is very, very flexible because one could conceivably come in and look at things in a very clinical vein and get that information, and yet there are many other ways to look at the collection.
So, again, it would depend upon the scholar's viewpoint.
We have very strong collection of different anatomical works, for instance.
and the anatomical works.
We even have people come over from the Cleveland Institute of Art because, again, the overlap is just enormous.
I'm going to make a prediction on my take.
Here it is, October 9, 1996, that you are going to put together this great collection on the literature of these, but it is largely going to be the stuff that it should be, the clinical stuff.
But somebody else out there, you don't even know, and I don't even know who this person is, is going to gather all those novels and all the memoirs and all the poetry.
And somehow this person is going to hear about your collection, and you're going to get that collection.
And maybe 20 years from now.
But that's how the dynamic works.
Exactly.
That would be wonderful.
You know?
You and I are formulating this right now.
But I wouldn't... What happens to collectors is that they have to... I see where I'm coming from.
I couldn't agree with you more.
Yeah.
So we are looking for other things like that.
What I told our Medical History Society recently is that I'm trying to continue with the things that we've done in the past, bringing those strands into the future, and also to see what areas we might start to collect in.
One thing that I always think of as an area, and now we're not doing this, but something that I thought is very critical is a lot of the early works on DNA, for instance.
That work was done in the late 40s and the early 50s.
In my neck of the woods, too.
Uh-huh.
At the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology, believe it or not.
That's right.
But I would be willing to tell you that most of the copies that we have of different... Give a pencil.
Yeah.
Whenever we're on this stuff.
Ah, yes, I understand.
You're well trained.
Thanks.
But I would venture to guess that most places that actually have
these different early works on the development of, you know, research on DNA, actually those works are probably falling to smithereens or have been purloined already or whatever.
So, like, for instance, what would a pristine copy of the molecular biology of the gene look like?
And, you know, again, in 20 years, probably you're not going to be able to find any of them because, again, they've all been used to death or whatever.
That, to me, is an area that needs to be collected.
I think it's outside of our purview here, but I think it would be interesting for someone to collect.
This is spectacular, yeah.
Isn't it wonderful?
Yeah, Verona.
What are the numerals?
M, G, X, X, X. So what... 15, 1530.
Wow.
It's an old name.
Well, then I have... The one thing I must show you, then,
Because this is, I always tell the students, this is the whole memorial.
And we're very proud of this.
This is Vesalius.
This is not the original finding.
This is pretty good.
We had a full-time conservator here who was probably one of the best, I think, in the country.
I did not know him myself, but he's very well known.
His name was Swoboda.
And he actually went down, I think, to University of Texas at Austin.
But anyway, I'm sure as soon as you see the top of the title page, you've seen this before.
Well, I've seen Haskell Normans, which is colored.
Oh, but this, I mean, we're just excited because when we have... Well, this is marvelous.
But that is his great book.
Every notable collection is defined by at least one great book.
Exactly.
And his great book, in his view, is his Vesalius.
Well, this is our number one book, like I said, in the first edition to the library.
So I think that...
So the collection basically started with this.
What a way to start.
I know.
But it must be a pretty, the binding must be pretty old.
I mean, it's... Now, I don't know very much about the construction of it.
I'm sure it's documented.
And the rare book librarian who was here before me, of course, would know.
You can tell now that the work was quite well done.
I know that Jan was very highly thought of in the field.
So this is not even, this is not the first edition, because the
It was 1543, but I believe this was considered the more accurate, perhaps, edition, because that happens in medical technology.
Yeah, well, in my book, everybody is bonkers about getting the first edition.
Great.
The edition of Florence Nightingale, I believe, had a larger printing run.
So, actually, the second edition or second printing was smaller, so that's the one that people who are collectors actually collect.
Isn't that interesting?
Yeah.
I read that somewhere.
Well, that's good.
I'm writing two books, by the way.
One is just going to be on collecting, and then it'll come after this next one.
And this was at the behest of my publisher, but little items like that are things I love to get, I'm looking for.
I'll go right in the database when I get home.
I pick that up somewhere.
Well, this is your great book, the Vesalius, the first great book.
Yes, that's right.
And it's a 1555, I think you said.
That's right.
Okay.
Yeah, well, you should be.
It's wonderful.
And did you want to show me around?
Or did you want to show me some of these others?
Why don't you close this up for us before you... Well, I'll close this in the same way.
Well, I don't mind holding it open a few minutes.
I don't, you know, but I wouldn't want to keep it in that position for my time.
My feeling is go ahead and we've seen it.
It's actually funny, though.
I am a curator, truly, but what I tend to do is I tend to...
to err on the other side of showing people things.
And I know a lot of people say, well, how can you show things?
Yeah, but this is not just a story you have.
These folks are here to be used.
We have to understand about it.
Elizabeth Blackwell.
This is not Elizabeth Blackwell, who was the first female physician
Bob mentioned something about the herbal collection.
We have a collection of over 200 herbals.
There haven't actually been a publication on it.
So it's extensive.
It goes all the way to the very early, very early 16th century.
We've got them large format.
Whichever one you want.
Diascordi's, all the rest.
But I was going to show you this because this is from the whole collection.
Again, the Kittables.
And what's nice about, let me put up Elizabeth here.
She's okay.
And again, these are the ones that I actually show for medical students, so I try to make them happy.
This is that annotation by Nicholas Pohl, so you really do have... Oh, that's who that is.
Isn't that wonderful?
Yeah.
It's kind of, you know, one of those eerie things.
It's Nicholas Pohl, Doctor, 1494.
Wow!
You know?
Mm-hmm.
Columbus has barely set foot.
I know.
I always tell the students that, too.
Wow.
And what is this up here?
Is that also in his hand?
I believe it is.
I can't read all of this, and some of this is obviously described in the actual text, so if you get hold of the other text.
And which book is this that has this?
This is Johannes de Ketham, T-K-E-T-H-A-M.
Look at the condition here.
And this is actually...
The first evidence, the first use of didactic medical woodcuts.
And what I always point out... Did the title once more, though?
No, no, no, actually not, because I think that was it.
What is it called?
Is that the insipid, I guess you could say?
Because so many times with these books, they didn't have... The title page was not yet caught, you know, all that.
So that's probably the best that we have.
What is it called again?
I can get the exact title.
But what did you, how did you... I usually refer to it as, well, his name is Johannes de Ketham, and it's usually called fasciculus medicinae, I believe.
There are different versions of it, and I can get the exact name here.
But I was just going to show you, again, these are very well-known woodcuts.
And one of the wonderful things here is that there are different sections that talk, if you...
Look closely.
I think the first word is probably veina.
This is a veina section diagram of where to bleed people.
And there are pictures of how an actual anatomy was performed, and that I always
I love the marginalia, of course.
And this is Paul's marginalia.
As far as I know, as far as I know, I haven't been able, like I said, to study it.
Do you also have the full provenance of this book?
Do you know whose hands it passed?
I believe most of that, again, is documented in the book.
See, that's fantastic.
I'm going to have something on Owen Gingrich, you know, who's trying to find, determine every owner of every first and second
extant edition of Copernicus.
Wow.
That's interesting.
That's amazing.
Because I'm really interested in how the books influence lives, and if you can document it, you know, this is pretty interesting.
Of course, that's an astrological connection there.
That's wonderful.
The condition of this is spectacular.
I had a class, I went to rare book school, and I had a class in paper, and paper making, and
I don't know if you've ever heard the name Tim Barrett, but he's at the University of Iowa.
He is amazing.
He's a wonderful person, but he's also a very, very well-known scholar in terms of papermaking.
One of his most famous books is called, oh, I'm going to get it confused, but he did the definitive work on Japanese papermaking.
He's a very well-known paper scholar, in addition to being an actual papermaker.
He's an artist and also a historian, done a lot of work on preservation.
But he used to talk about books, and he'd say, you can look at any incunable book and look at the paper, and the paper is vibrant.
And it's true.
You look at the paper, and you just say, this is an amazing paper.
And then you look at something from the 50s that is turning green by now.
The other thing that's very interesting for most, I think the students usually get a kick out of this, is that this is actually a chart on urine.
Are these vials?
Yes, that's right.
And what used to happen in the late Middle Ages, early Renaissance times, is that that was how diagnosis was done.
So you collected urine, and then you analyzed color and sediment and stuff like that.
So they really were analyzing urine that early?
Well, but in the sense of looking at it.
In a rudimentary fashion, of course.
That's right, that's right.
But that's what I always tell people.
It's like this is very similar in terms of they actually use that thing that we still use to diagnose certain illnesses,
And, of course, this all ties in, if you look at the name sanguine and cholergic and all the rest of it.
This has to do with the four humors, you know, black, bile, all of this.
Sanguine, sanguineous.
Yeah, which is this word here?
This is choleric.
You know, sometimes it's C-H-O-L-E-R-I-C.
Choleric?
Right.
Phlegmatic?
Phlegmatic, exactly.
And the balance of the humors, all of this, of course, goes all the way back to Galenic medicine, you know, the different balances of the humor and
how you treat them.
So this is basically a diagnostic chart of this thing.
I mean, even just the initials are just wonderful.
Where was this book printed, did you say?
I'd have to look it up.
Go to the colophon.
Maybe it's in the colophon.
Sure, though.
I don't remember if there was a colophon, though.
There's also a wonderful index.
Look at that.
I know.
That's a handwritten index.
That's right.
Do you think you folded that?
I'm not sure.
Again, it's probably in the book.
I don't know all the details.
I always have to apologize.
So this book is the book that this person used to... Well, I mean, obviously, his name is, you know, it's like you're talking provenance.
It's like, well, we have, this is the smoking gun that it was polled book.
So I'm assuming, especially with all of this work, that obviously, you know, look at those annotations.
Wow.
You know that this person had to have looked at this book and said, well, phlegmatic.
I'll look it up on, you know, page 24 or whatever.
I can't find you the exact publication.
That's in that book.
I'm going to have to reference that book anyway, so don't bother.
Anything I do in this is going to require my getting that book, which is easily accessible to me.
The other thing is, I think that this is one of these situations where this is a bound-with situation.
There are three different books here, essentially.
What do they call them?
No, that's different volumes.
I often refer to them as boundless, but they're basically, they're not, they used to call them triple-deckers, too, when they were novels in the 19th century.
but there are different works that will... They call them Reader's Digest condensed books, right?
Well, I don't know what Johannes de Kepha would be in condensed versions.
But anyway, that is truly a work that I enjoy.
Well, that's central.
I'll show you one other small thing, just to show you again how... You know, personally, I mean, you may consider the Vesalius the Holy of Holies, but for my money... Well, you see, this is... There are others of these...
Other people have these.
This is pretty special.
Well, there are a number of Kevins out there.
Yeah, but with the stuff that's in there.
Well, yeah, but you see, I think that's why the Paul collection is so magnificent.
And part of the problem with getting people to study the Paul collection, though, is that think of what you have to know.
I always tell people, I tell the students that, well, if you knew Latin, you could read this.
But that's really not true, because it would require not only that you knew Latin, but that you, of course, understood the historical aspect of all this,
And you understood the medicine of the time.
So this material, there's a lot of rude stuff there, but it requires a scholar who has all those different strands.
You have to come prepared.
Exactly.
So you have to have done many years of homework.
So you don't allow idle examination of these?
Oh, if someone came in and said, I would like to see, I've had some people come off the street and say, hi, I heard that you had Darwin.
I'll pull Darwin off as long as they're not going to drop coffee on it.
I don't have a problem with that.
Most people do not come and ask for your honesty.
They don't know.
I didn't know until today.
That's the whole beauty of this book business.
I've been talking to a history professor here who teaches on the history of science and technology, and I was marveling over this one book.
This is much later.
I mean, this is so old.
This is a 1745 book, but it's by a man named Dagote.
What I always find curious is that the development of medical illustration.
Now this, again, this is not the type of piece that, you know, is one of a kind, but it really is just an absolutely stunning work.
I believe this is copper press.
I'm not that good on illustration processes, but... Wow.
And there's a... How about when is this?
Again, mid-18th century.
But there's a, let's see if I can find it.
So these are all hand colored, you think?
No, I think that this is actually copper, color, copper print, copper plain etching.
Wow.
So, and what I find curious is that when you look at some of the standard... I mean, it's pre-lithography.
Well, also, it's very, I always think of it as being very modern, the way it works.
Look at the, and look at how... I didn't know you could pull stuff with a press that earlier, with these different colors, but I guess you could.
Well, again, I don't know all of the ins and outs about it, but again, not only the colors, but also the preservation of it all, it seems like it's a thing for that.
Look at the detail.
Exactly.
There are two prints, and I can never find them when I want to.
There's a very exotic print of a woman.
Oh, is it both?
That's a fairly famous illustration from this work.
And what I always find peculiar is that if you cut it off right here, the face is fine.
It's a work of art.
And then you realize all of a sudden, oh, well, she's been flayed.
Look, he's flayed her.
Yeah.
That's right.
Who is this?
Do you know?
His name is Dagote.
I can give you a name.
Dagote.
Let me get you the exact citation.
Is this the scholar or the artist?
Yeah.
The artists, but you've got to remember too, a lot of these, like when we say Vesalius and all that, many times I always think of it almost like an editor-in-chief because then what happens is they have someone actually execute the different prints or woodcuts.
Same thing happened with Vesalius, because Vesalius didn't actually do all of the etchings himself.
I think it was von Kalkar who did them, who was a student of T.